README.md, before:

# Instana Data Source

This is a Grafana datasource for showing metrics from Instana AI-Powered APM for dynamic applications.

## Requirements

Attention: For On-premise customers Instana Release 146 is required.

## Features

- Dynamic Focus queries
- Applications and Websites
- Automatic completion for available types and metrics
- Utilizes Instana REST API
- Security via access token

## Configuration

This datasource uses the Instana REST API to query the metric values. First of all you will need to generate an API [token](https://docs.instana.io/quick_start/api/). Use this token along with the URL for your Instana account e.g. *https://prod-acme.instana.io*

![datasource configuration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/datasource-sml.png)

To use the Grafana server as a proxy for querying Instana REST API please check `Use proxy`.

To enable metrics for offline snapshots please check `Enable offline snapshots`. For On-premise customers Instana Release 156 is required.

## Usage

### Query Editor

![empty query editor](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/empty-query.png)

To start, enter the [Dynamic Focus](https://docs.instana.io/core_concepts/dynamic_focus/) query. This is exactly the same as used in the Instana dashboard; you can test your queries in Instana and then copy and paste them into Grafana. *NOTE* Saved filters are not currently supported by the Grafana datasource plugin.

#### Infrastructure built-in metrics

Once you filled in the query the available types dropdown will be automatically populated, select the type you want.

As you select the type, the available metrics dropdown will be automatically populated, select the metric you want.

If your Dynamic Focus query matches multiple instances then, the returned dataset will include metrics from all those matching instances, providing graphs with multiple plots like the example below.

![multiple plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/built-in-metrics.gif)

#### Infrastructure custom metrics

To choose custom metrics matching your query you need to select "Infrastructure custom metrics" from the category dropdown, which will automatically populate the available types dropdown.

As you select the type, the available metrics dropdown will be automatically populated, select the metric you want. As there might be a huge amount of custom metrics, you can specify an optional filter to reduce to a corresponding subset.

If your Dynamic Focus query matches, the returned dataset will include metrics providing graphs like the example below.

![custom plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/custom-metrics.gif)

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $host - the corresponding host
- $pid - the corresponding PID
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $type - the entity type
- $service - the service label (for endpoints only)
- $name - a label alternative
- $index - index in the list

#### Application metrics

A simple version of getting metrics related to one or multiple applications. Once an application and a metric are selected, the graphs will be drawn (see example below).

![application metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/application_metrics.gif)

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $application - application label
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($application) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Service metrics

Allows to show metrics related to a service. Services can either be selected as standalone (first gif) or in combination with an Application Perspective (second gif) to show more detailed metric data. As soon as an application is selected the dropdown menu of possible services reloads and only shows services that are actually being used by the selected application.

![service metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/service_metrics.gif)

![application service metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/application_service_metrics.gif)

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $service - service label
- $application - application label (if selected)
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($service) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Endpoint metrics

Allows to show metrics related to an endpoint. Endpoints can either be selected as standalone or in combination with an Application Perspective and service to show more detailed metric data. Since multiple endpoints can have the same name, it is recommended to select an application, then a service, and finally an endpoint in order to be sure to select the correct endpoint. Possible selectable items are reloaded and cached each time a service and an application is changed.

![endpoint metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/endpoint_metrics.gif)

![application service endpoint metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/applicaiton_service_endpoint_metrics.gif)

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $application - application label (if selected)
- $service - service label (if selected)
- $endpoint - endpoint label
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($endpoint) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Analyze application calls

To choose application metrics you need to select "Analyze application calls" from the category dropdown. This will populate the other dropdown lists.

The "Application" dropdown will contain a list of all applications sorted by their name.

Most metrics will have more than one aggregation type (SUM, MEAN, ...) and you can choose which one to use.

It's also possible to add additional filters via "add Filter". Multiple filters are concatenated using "AND".

If your selection matches, the returned dataset will include metrics providing graphs like the example below.

![application plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/application.gif)

If more then 20 metics are fetched, a warning appears that not all results are shown. Add Filter to narrow down the data.

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $application - application label
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($application) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Analyze websites

To choose EUM website metrics you need to select "Analyze websites" from the category dropdown. This will populate the other dropdown lists.

The "Website" dropdown will contain a list of all websites sorted by their pageloads.

Most metrics will have more than one aggregation type (SUM, MEAN, ...) and you can choose which one to use.

It's also possible to add additional filters via "add Filter". Multiple filters are concatenated using "AND".

If your selection matches, the returned dataset will include metrics providing graphs like the example below.

![website plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/website.gif)

A default label '_$label ($website) $metric_' will be shown.

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $website - website label
- $type - entity type
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($website) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Singlestat visualization

While using the "Singlestat" visualization an additional metric aggregation is selectable.
For showing a correct SUM metric, configuration on two different places is needed:
- on metric selection: "SUM" to adjust our mean calculated rollup values
- on Singlestat configuation: "Total" to tell the panel to aggregate all given values

![singlestat](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/singlestat.png)

#### Table visualization

While using the "Table" visualization an additional metric aggregation is selectable.

![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/table-visualization.png)

#### Use time shift option

The time shift option allows going back in different points of time for each query.

This new feature can be used to compare two identical queries while one shows the query's outcome of a day earlier.

![time shift](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/timeshift.gif)

#### Custom Granularity

This plugin also supports the ability to select different granularity values to provide a even deeper look into metrics.

![Granularity Support](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/granularity.gif)

#### Aggregation support

Aggregate graphs on query level and choose to show everything or only the aggregated graph.

![Aggregation Support](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/aggregation.gif)

Commit message:

added documentation for query limit in config

README.md, after:

# Instana Data Source

This is a Grafana datasource for showing metrics from Instana AI-Powered APM for dynamic applications.

## Requirements

Attention: For On-premise customers Instana Release 146 is required.

## Features

- Dynamic Focus queries
- Applications and Websites
- Automatic completion for available types and metrics
- Utilizes Instana REST API
- Security via access token

## Configuration

This datasource uses the Instana REST API to query the metric values. First of all you will need to generate an API [token](https://docs.instana.io/quick_start/api/). Use this token along with the URL for your Instana account e.g. *https://prod-acme.instana.io*

To use the Grafana server as a proxy for querying Instana REST API please check `Use proxy`.

To enable metrics for offline snapshots please check `Enable offline snapshots`. For On-premise customers Instana Release 156 is required.

The configuration allows the setting of a limit for the different categories that this plugin offers. Numeric values can be entered in order to make sure that queries do not exceed a certain amount of window size that they query. This can be useful when experiencing Grafana performance issues. See the gif below on how this limit exactly works.

![datasource configuration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/limit_configuration.gif)

## Usage

### Query Editor

![empty query editor](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/empty-query.png)

To start, enter the [Dynamic Focus](https://docs.instana.io/core_concepts/dynamic_focus/) query. This is exactly the same as used in the Instana dashboard; you can test your queries in Instana and then copy and paste them into Grafana. *NOTE* Saved filters are not currently supported by the Grafana datasource plugin.

#### Infrastructure built-in metrics

Once you filled in the query the available types dropdown will be automatically populated, select the type you want.

As you select the type, the available metrics dropdown will be automatically populated, select the metric you want.

If your Dynamic Focus query matches multiple instances then, the returned dataset will include metrics from all those matching instances, providing graphs with multiple plots like the example below.

![multiple plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/built-in-metrics.gif)

#### Infrastructure custom metrics

To choose custom metrics matching your query you need to select "Infrastructure custom metrics" from the category dropdown, which will automatically populate the available types dropdown.

As you select the type, the available metrics dropdown will be automatically populated, select the metric you want. As there might be a huge amount of custom metrics, you can specify an optional filter to reduce to a corresponding subset.

If your Dynamic Focus query matches, the returned dataset will include metrics providing graphs like the example below.

![custom plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/custom-metrics.gif)

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $host - the corresponding host
- $pid - the corresponding PID
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $type - the entity type
- $service - the service label (for endpoints only)
- $name - a label alternative
- $index - index in the list

#### Application metrics

A simple version of getting metrics related to one or multiple applications. Once an application and a metric are selected, the graphs will be drawn (see example below).

![application metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/application_metrics.gif)

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $application - application label
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($application) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Service metrics

Allows to show metrics related to a service. Services can either be selected as standalone (first gif) or in combination with an Application Perspective (second gif) to show more detailed metric data. As soon as an application is selected the dropdown menu of possible services reloads and only shows services that are actually being used by the selected application.

![service metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/service_metrics.gif)

![application service metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/application_service_metrics.gif)

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $service - service label
- $application - application label (if selected)
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($service) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Endpoint metrics

Allows to show metrics related to an endpoint. Endpoints can either be selected as standalone or in combination with an Application Perspective and service to show more detailed metric data. Since multiple endpoints can have the same name, it is recommended to select an application, then a service, and finally an endpoint in order to be sure to select the correct endpoint. Possible selectable items are reloaded and cached each time a service and an application is changed.

![endpoint metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/endpoint_metrics.gif)

![application service endpoint metric plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/application_service_endpoint_metrics.gif)

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $application - application label (if selected)
- $service - service label (if selected)
- $endpoint - endpoint label
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($endpoint) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Analyze application calls

To choose application metrics you need to select "Analyze application calls" from the category dropdown. This will populate the other dropdown lists.

The "Application" dropdown will contain a list of all applications sorted by their name.

Most metrics will have more than one aggregation type (SUM, MEAN, ...) and you can choose which one to use.

It's also possible to add additional filters via "add Filter". Multiple filters are concatenated using "AND".

If your selection matches, the returned dataset will include metrics providing graphs like the example below.

![application plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/application.gif)

If more then 20 metics are fetched, a warning appears that not all results are shown. Add Filter to narrow down the data.

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $application - application label
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($application) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Analyze websites

To choose EUM website metrics you need to select "Analyze websites" from the category dropdown. This will populate the other dropdown lists.

The "Website" dropdown will contain a list of all websites sorted by their pageloads.

Most metrics will have more than one aggregation type (SUM, MEAN, ...) and you can choose which one to use.

It's also possible to add additional filters via "add Filter". Multiple filters are concatenated using "AND".

If your selection matches, the returned dataset will include metrics providing graphs like the example below.

![website plot graph](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/website.gif)

A default label '_$label ($website) $metric_' will be shown.

### Change legend format

To adjust the legend display you can provide an own "Legend format". Supported values for replacement are:

- $label - the entity label
- $website - website label
- $type - entity type
- $timeShift - corresponding timeShift
- $metric - the displayed metric
- $key - metric key with aggregation and rollup
- $index - index in the list

If no custom format is provided the default label '_$label ($website) $metric_' will be shown.

#### Singlestat visualization

While using the "Singlestat" visualization an additional metric aggregation is selectable.
For showing a correct SUM metric, configuration on two different places is needed:
- on metric selection: "SUM" to adjust our mean calculated rollup values
- on Singlestat configuation: "Total" to tell the panel to aggregate all given values

![singlestat](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/singlestat.png)

#### Table visualization

While using the "Table" visualization an additional metric aggregation is selectable.

![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/table-visualization.png)

#### Use time shift option

The time shift option allows going back in different points of time for each query.

This new feature can be used to compare two identical queries while one shows the query's outcome of a day earlier.

![time shift](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/timeshift.gif)

#### Custom Granularity

This plugin also supports the ability to select different granularity values to provide a even deeper look into metrics.

![Granularity Support](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/granularity.gif)

#### Aggregation support

Aggregate graphs on query level and choose to show everything or only the aggregated graph.

![Aggregation Support](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/instana/instana-grafana-datasource/master/screenshots/aggregation.gif)
